Now the null distribution, which we've already constructed is a TYPE of sampling distribution, but there is a major difference between this distribution, which we used to calculate p-values and the one we will use to construct confidence intervals. 
The null distribution that we used to calculate p-values was constructed based on the null hypothesis that there is no true difference between the two groups. And for that reason, the null distribution is centered around zero. A sampling distribution used to construct confidence intervals makes no such assumption about the null hypothesis. Instead it uses the mean difference between groups that was observed in the actual sample as the middle point of the distribution. And we can use it to construct some confidence intervals for this DIFFERENCE in mean leadership scores that we observed in our sample. Let's do that now. 

Here's a larger view of the distribution that we're going to use to construct the confidence intervals for the mean difference that we observed between masters and bachelors degree nurses in our sample. You can see that it is centered around the red line, which is the mean difference in leadership scores observed from our sample. The region between two standard errors above and below the mean will cover ninety five percent of the distribution and give us our confidence intervals.

So let's now add some shading to cover the region below the mean to the lower ninety five percent confidence interval and also the range above the mean to cover up to the upper ninety-five percent confidence interval. 

Now that we've done that, the conclusion that we can draw from constructing these confidence intervals is that we are ninety five percent confident that the true mean difference in leadership scores between masters and bachelors degree prepared nurses IN THE POPULATION is within zero point four points higher in masters nurses to three point two points higher in masters nurses. And we can make this conclusion because the ninety five percent confidence interval indicates the range of scores in which, if we were to repeatedly sample 200 nurses from that same population over and over again, we would expect the mean difference to come up within the range from the lower to the upper confidence interval ninety five percent of the time.

Time to have a go at constructing some confidence intervals in the next exercise.
