The odds ratio is an effect estimate that can be produced by a statistical test called logistic regression. As you might suspect, the interpretation of the odds ratio is quite similar to the beta coefficient from linear regression. But unlike linear regression where the outcome variable was measured on a numerical scale, the outcome variable for logistic regression is dichotomous. 

In other words it is a categorical variable with just two levels. In healthcare, logistic regression is quite a common statistical test used because many of the outcomes that are really important to patients are dichotomous. Examples of dichotomous outcomes that are important to patients include things like mortality, having to be admitted to hospital or getting an infection. So you will come across odds ratios very commonly in quantitative research. 

To demonstrate the interpretation of the odds ratio, let's take a look at an example from my research. Hypothermia is generally considered to be an adverse effect of anesthesia that should be avoided. A while back, I conducted a study to determine the prevalence of hypothermia in patients undergoing procedures with sedation in the cardiac cath lab. In our study, we found that about one in four patients were hypothermic after their procedure. But we were also interested in what factors may be associated with hypothermia and to investigate this question, we used logistic regression. The outcome variable was hypothermia, which is of course dichotomous, because a patient was classified as either hypothermic or normothermic. One of the predictor variables we were interested in was body mass index. And by plotting the data we get a sense that there may be a relationship here. There seems to be quite a few patients who were hypothermic on the lower ends of the bmi spectrum at the top left of the plot and not as many patients hypothermic as BMI increased at the top right.

Let's see if our guess that there is an association between hypothermia and body mass index is true. 