The final two effect estimates I want to cover are absolute and relative risk reduction. It's very important to be able to distinguish between these two different types of effect estimates when appraising the results of research. You are most likely to come across these effect estimates in randomized controlled trials where the outcome is a dichotomous variable. Let's start with absolute risk.

The absolute risk reduction is pretty simple. It's just the difference between the event rates between the two groups. For example, if twenty five percent of patients in the control group died and twenty percent of those in the intervention group died, the absolute risk reduction is five percent.

The relative risk reduction is a bit trickier. It is still the difference in event rates between the groups, but it is instead expressed as a proportion of the event rate in the control group. So if we were to apply this to our last example, we simply divide the absolute risk reduction by the control group event rate, and find that the relative risk reduction was equal to twenty percent. 

Something to also note is that a different and quite common way that relative risks are reported is as risk ratios. The risk ratio is calculated by dividing the event rate in the control group by the event rate of intervention group. The result for our example is zero point eight. 

We can interpret risk ratios in a similar way to odds ratios in that risk ratios above one indicate an increase in risk of the outcome and risk ratios lower than one indicate a decrease in risk of the outcome.

I'm sure you've all grasped now that understanding the difference between absolute and relative risk reductions, is vital for decision making. For example, if a patient is told that the intervention treatment we evaluated reduced risk of dying in our study by twenty percent, which was the relative risk reduction, they may make a different decision about whether or not to use this new treatment if they were told that it reduced risk of dying by five percent, which was the absolute risk reduction. Information about absolute risk reductions are especially pertinent to decision-making if there are other harms associated with the treatment that patients would need to tolerate. 