To do this, we run a logistic regression model. You're likely to see the results of logistic regression models presented in tables that look something like this. The last row of the table contains the important information for this analysis, including the odds ratio for the predictor variable, which is body mass index, along with the p value, and confidence intervals. 

Just like linear regression, the p-value that logistic regression is testing, is the null hypothesis that there is no relationship between the predictor and the outcome variable. In other words, the null hypothesis is that the odd ratio is one and the alternative hypothesis is that the odds ratio is not one.  

In our case, the odds ratio for BMI was zero point nine. The interpretation is that for each increase in body mass index, there was a 10% decrease in the odds of hypothermia. We should also note that categorical variables can also be predictors in logistic regression models and the interpretation of the odds ratios are pretty much the same as for numerical variables. To demonstrate, let's add in a categorical variable as a predictor of hypothermia in our model.

A predictor variable we were interested in was the use of propofol for sedation. When we add this variable to our logistic regression model, we find that the odds ratio for propofol was three. The interpretation for this odds ratio is that patients who received propofol for sedation, had three times greater odds of being hypothermic after their procedure in comparison to patients who received a different type of sedation. Another way of interpreting this odds ratio is that there was three hundred percent greater odds of hypothermia or hypothermia was three hundred percent more likely in patients who received propofol. 

So just to recap - odds ratios greater than one can be interpreted as the extent to which the odds of the outcome increases with each unit increase in the predictor variable. Odds ratios less than one can be interpretated as a decrease in the odds of the outcome with each unit increase in the predictor variable.