In our case, the regression line is not very steep so we need to zoom in the plot to be able to appreciate how the slope coefficient relates to the regression line. This is the same plot as before except just showing the vertical axis from forty to fifty points instead of zero to one hundred so the line just gives the impression that it is steeper.

To demonstrate how the slope coefficient is calculated, we can take the point in the regression line at the coordinates where quality of life equals forty two point five and depression equals seventeen point five and then draw a straight horizontal line one point along to a depression score of eighteen point five.

Then, if we draw a straight vertical line back to meet the regression line again and calculate how many quality of points down we had to go, that will give us our slope coefficient. In this case, because we had to go vertically downwards the slope coefficient is negative one point four. And the interpretation, is that for each unit increase in depression, there was an associated decrease of one point four units of quality of life.

Somthing important to note is that instead of showing a scatterplot with the fitted regression line, many research papers will report results of linear regression in a table like this. First of all, you'll notice that the coefficients are commonly termed beta coefficients with the greek symbol used for notation. The first row of the table shows the coefficient for the intercept and the second has the slope coefficient for the depression variable along with it's associated p value and confidence intervals. And this brings me to my next point. When I've previously talked about p-values, it has been associated with testing the null hypothesis that there was no difference in mean scores between two groups. In the case of linear regression, the p-value is instead testing the null hypothesis that there is no relationship between the predictor and the outcome variable. Or in other words, the null hypothesis is that the regression coefficient is zero and the alternative hypothesis is that the regression coefficient is not zero. 

In the next section, I want to test your knowledge a bit and see if you can properly interpret what the 95% confidence intervals presented in this table means.