We saw from Grimshaw's summary of evidence that the more engaging implementation strategies were more effective at changing practice in comparison with passive interventions like disseminating research findings.

A group of researchers who developed one of the knowledge translation models, known as PARIHS, have unpacked these concepts further by hypothesising that 'facilitation' is the key ingredient in translating new knowledge into practice in healthcare. 
---
The PARIHS or Promoting Action on Research Implementation in Health Services is a popular knowledge translation framework, which is now known as the i-PARIHS framework, which stands for integrated, since it's revision in 2015. The i-PARIHS framework proposes that successful implementation of research evidence into practice requires consideration of four different constructs. These are the 

innovation that is the focus of the implementation effort). 

Consideration of the Recipients of the new knowledge and how they will respond to the changes required to implement the innovation is required. 

Developing an understanding of contextual factors, both within and outside of an organization, is required to understand the potential impact on the success of the implementaion. 

And facilitation is represented as the active element assessing, aligning and integrating the other three constructs. 
---
What the authors specifically contend, is that facilitation should be a distinct role or several roles, which must be formally instituted to guide the knowledge translation activity. They argue that other similar implementation strategies, such as the opinion leader approach, are in fact more passive than their conceptualisation of facilitation. This is because the opinion leader is not responsible for actually changing clinician's behaviour, but rather acts as a model who has some credibility among their peers to potentially influence how their colleagues think and act. 

By contrast, a facilitator, as defined with the i-PARIHS framework, is charged with the responsibility of enabling individuals, groups and teams to work effectively together to achieve a common goal. Within the i-PARIHS framework, three different levels of facilitation roles have been defined, based upon their prior experiences and training. Novice facilitators would mostly be identified from within a local institution and, for the facilitation process to work effectively, they would need to be supported by more experienced and expert facilitators. The expert facilitation role needs to be positioned at a strategic level with the authority to influence behaviour across multiple systems. These experts needed to be skilled in engaging stakeholders, understanding politics and power relations within organizations, be effective communicators across multiple boundaries and organizational levels. 
---
Let's read more about the role of facilitation in the next section. 
